README.md, before:

# Employee Tracker [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Description

This command-line interface application is for an employer to keep track of their departments, roles, and employees.

## Table of Contents
[Usage](#usage)
[License](#license)
[Contributing](#contributing)
[Questions](#questions)

## Usage

Use `npm start` in order to start the application. From there, the main menu will render, allowing you to pick from a list of options. These options include viewing all departments, roles, and employees, adding to each of these, and an option to update the role of an existing employee.

## License
[MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)

Copyright (c) 2024 PurplePeopleEated

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## Contributing

Articles Used:
- [MDN Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/)
- [w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
- AI Assistant

## Questions

GitHub: [Profile](https://github.com/PurplePeopleEated)

Commit message:

edit readme for install instructions

README.md, after:

# Employee Tracker [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Description

This command-line interface application is for an employer to keep track of their departments, roles, and employees.

## Table of Contents
[Install](#install)
[Usage](#usage)
[License](#license)
[Contributing](#contributing)
[Questions](#questions)

## Install

1. Be sure you have MySQL installed on your local machine. Start mysql up and run both:
  - `source db/schema.sql`
  - `source db/seeds.sql`
2. Use `npm i` in the root directory to install the required dependencies.
3. `npm start` will start the application in your command-line interface!

## Usage

Use `npm start` in order to start the application. From there, the main menu will render, allowing you to pick from a list of options. These options include viewing all departments, roles, and employees, adding to each of these, and an option to update the role of an existing employee.

## License
[MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)

Copyright (c) 2024 PurplePeopleEated

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## Contributing

Articles Used:
- [MDN Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/)
- [w3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)
- AI Assistant

## Questions

GitHub: [Profile](https://github.com/PurplePeopleEated)
